8/28/19 Lab 01- In this lab we created a small network on VShpere which is an online vmware that we will be using in class. When we began the lab we connected to our Wide area network(WAN) and Local area network (LAN) on our fw01 vm. Then after we did that we went into the command line as we did not have our GUI set up yet, which is what we are doing in the command line. We then assigned interfaces in the same order as they were in our VMware configuration. What that looked like was the WAN was associated with the first interface and the LAN is associated with the second interface. Then I had to rename the WAN and LAN to em0 and em1 respectively, and after that I set the interface IP address for the both of them. What I had to do to set up the WAN interface I set the IP addre that was given to me, I put in that it was a 24 bit subnet mask, I set the upstream gateway and used tat for the IPv4 name server as well and as we are not using IPv6 ir DHCP I skipped those parts. Then it asked about HTTP for the GUI and I responded no as we want to use secure https. For the LAN interface I did the exact same steps. After I set both of those up I then powered on wks01 and I had to set my IP address, subnet mask and the default gateway as it was the first time I logged onto that VM. From there I went to the internet and navigated to the fw01's LAN IP address to configure the GUI. What I had to do for that was change the hostname and domain, "uncheck block private networks..." in the RFC1918 part of the configure WAN interface section. Then I set the root password in the system wizard. After I finished the setup I got a screenshot of a successful ping from fw01 to champlain.edu. I then went into the powershell of the wks01 VM to use the commands "whoami", "hostname", "ping -n google.com", and "ipconfig." After that I then went to champlain.edu on google chrome through the wks01 VM. After concluding that I used the command "tracert" to show 3 hops against champlain.edu. Finally I talked about the techincal terms or steps that I was unfamiliar with. Three terms that I was unfamiliar with were, WAN, DHCP and upstream gateway. I found out what WAN was during class as that is when we talked about it and after we talked about it I was not confused about it anymore. The DHCP is something I was also confused about but we did talk about what it stood for and what it did in class so I was able to figure it out fast, what DHCP stands for is Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol. What DHCP is a network managment protocol. The last term I was confised on was upstream gateway. An upstram gateway defines where traffic exiting that interface should go. I dont remember if we talked about this in class so I searched it up to see what upstream gateways do and what they are used for.  
9/4/19 Lab 02- In this lab we worked on setting up DNS on our virtual machines. What we did to start out was to go to the VM ad01 to configure it as we did our other VM in Lab 1. Then we set the administrator password and made it so we set the product key later. We then opened the vm and had server manager running and set the IP address to 10.0.5.5, the netmask to 255.255.255.0, the gateway to 10.0.5.2 after we made sure that our fw01 VM was running. Finally we set the DNS to 10.0.5.2 and as the discoverable option showed up for me I selected yes for the systems on my LAN. After that was all set I made sure that the time was correct and I changed the computer name to ad01-John so change it from the random one windows gives. I then opened up a powershell to ensure that I had connectivity. After that I went and added featured for the active directory domain services through the server manager, after that I started the process to promote my server to be the primary domain controller, I then made a new forest for the DNS server. Due to giving my environment a top level domain I recieved an error and it took a few minutes for my VM to reboot after that occured. After another reboot I tried to ping ad01-john and I was unable to by pinging the hostname. So I had to go and add a new host which allowes me to ping ad01-john by hostname or domain name, I then did the same for fw01. After that was done I had to add a reverse lookup zone and put the network ID as 10.0.5. I did this for fw01 and ad01 so that I would have been able to ping both. I then created a domain admin and a non privilleged account on the domain. On wks01 I went to internet protocol 4 to add it to the domain I created, I made sure that I could ping fw01 so that I knew I connected to the domain. After that I was done I restarted wks01 and started to do the deliverables. 
9/4/19 Deeper look into DNS- This activity involved the use of wireshark and looking into DNS. So what I first did was log onto the admin account that I created and instal wireshark from the location that was given to us in the activity. I then installed it and opened an elevated command prompt and flushed the dns with the command ipconfig /flushdns. I then started a wirehsark capture and pinged a site that did not exist, an existing local site and champlain.edu. I then went to wirehsark made it so I could only see DNS packets and went through them according to what was required us of the assignment. 
9/4/19 Deeper look into DNS final deliverable- These were the common DNS tyoes used that I got. AAAA- Is a commonly used record type typically used to map hostnames to an IP address from the host. NS- this record type delegates a zone for DNS so that it can use the authoritative name servers. SOA- this record type specifies the authoritative information about a DNS zone, which includes the primary name server, the email address of the domain administrator, the serial number of the domain and timers relating to refreshing the zone. TXT- this carries machine related data but before the 1990’s it was sending arbitrary human readable text in a DNS record. MX- this makes a map of the domain name which connects to a list of message transfer agents for that specified domain

